❯ could i use a cloud gpu to train a larger MAML backbone? would it still run   
  very well on an average laptop?                                               
⏺ Yes. MAML training is the expensive part (thousands of forward+backward
  passes). But at game time, each worker just does one forward pass through the
  cached adapted model — that's ~2-5ms on CPU regardless of backbone size.

  So you could train Conv4-256 (1.7M params) or even ResNet-12 (~3M params) on a
   cloud GPU in minutes, save the checkpoint, and the game would still run fine
  on a laptop. The player never waits for training — they just draw examples,
  the inner loop adapts (a few hundred ms, once), and then predictions are
  instant.

  The bottleneck in the game is the inner loop adaptation (runs when you finish
  training a worker). With Conv4-128 that's ~50ms. Conv4-256 would be ~150ms.
  ResNet-12 maybe ~300ms. All imperceptible to the player since it only happens
  once per training session, not per object.

❯ how many params does the current model have?                                  

⏺ 453,762 — Conv4 with 128 hidden channels, 3200-dim feature vector.

❯ interesting, do you think a bigger model would enable players more to create  
  systems that detect arbitrary patterns?                                       

⏺ Honestly, probably not much. The bottleneck isn't model capacity — it's the
  meta-training distribution. Conv4-128 already gets 100% on binary shape
  discrimination (circle vs triangle, star vs square). Where it struggles is
  abstract concepts like "symmetric vs irregular" (53%) or "pointy vs smooth"
  (58%).

  A bigger model with the same meta-training data would just memorize those same
   13 shape generators better. It wouldn't suddenly understand "symmetry" if it
  never saw enough varied examples of symmetric vs asymmetric things during
  meta-training.

  What WOULD enable arbitrary pattern detection is a richer meta-training
  distribution — more shape generators, more visual attributes, more diverse
  episodes. The instance discrimination approach already proved this: switching
  from concept-based to instance-based training improved curved_vs_straight from
   50% to 69% without changing the model at all.

  So the investment priority is: more diverse procedural generators > more
  training iterations > bigger model. A Conv4-128 trained on 50 shape generators
   with 30 concept types would beat a ResNet-12 trained on our current 13
  generators.

  That said, if you're going to 120 categories with contracts for spirals,
  fractals, fruits — yeah, eventually the 3200-dim feature space might not be
  enough to represent all those distinctions simultaneously. At that scale,
  Conv4-256 (25,600-dim features) would give more room. But I'd expand the
  training data first and only bump the model if accuracy plateaus despite
  diverse training.

❯ how rich is our current meta training distribution?                           

⏺ Bash(grep -c "def shape_" meta_training/procedural_meta.py; echo "---"; grep
      "def concept_" meta_training/procedural_meta.py | wc -l; echo "---"; grep
      "def shape_" m…)
  ⎿  13
     ---
     13
     … +28 lines (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ 13 shape generators, 13 concept types. That's thin.

  For context, Omniglot (the standard few-shot benchmark) has 1,623 character
  classes across 50 alphabets. Mini-ImageNet has 100 classes of natural images.
  Our meta-training has 13 procedural shapes with a handful of structural
  parameters each.

  The instance discrimination episodes help (random pairs of the 13 generators
  give ~78 unique pairings), but the underlying visual vocabulary is still just
  13 shapes. A player trying to teach "has a hole in it" vs "solid" or "zigzag
  pattern" vs "smooth curve" is asking the backbone to generalize to visual
  features it may have never encountered.

  To get to the 120-category contract system, this needs to be at least 40-50
  shape generators covering things like: n-gons with holes, concentric rings,
  zigzags, figure-eights, branching trees, gear teeth, pie slices, brackets,
  chevrons, spirographs, random bezier blobs, dot clusters, line hatching
  patterns, etc.